
Michael Rose’s works have been performed by eighth blackbird, Richmond County Orchestra, Momenta String Quartet, American Opera Projects, members of ICE, and many others, in India, Japan, and across Europe and the US. In addition to western classical music, he has written for film, stage, jazz ensemble, and Gagaku ensemble. His arranging credits include work with Angelique Kidjo. Grants include a Fulbright to Kerala, India, studying Kathakali dance-music-theater and south Indian percussion, with further awards from AMC, NFAA/Astral, SF Song Festival, and MTC. As a member of the South Oxford Six, Michael co-led week-long composition workshops and toured Serbia with resident ensembles during the annual “Summer in Sombor” (2007-10). Residencies include Yaddo, Djerassi, VCCA, and Centrum. Michael’s concert-length Rilke Songbook was commissioned and premiered by Brooklyn Art Song Society in 2014, with performers including Kate Maroney, Kyle Oliver, and Blair McMillen. Upcoming projects include adding to the Rilke Songbook and new pieces for pianist Beth Levin, clarinettist Chris Bush, komungo player Heo IkSoo, and piano-percussion ensemble Yarn/Wire.
Also an active pianist, Michael has performed in solo recitals, with chamber groups, and as a vocal accompanist at many of the NYC area’s major halls, including Carnegie’s Weill Hall, Steinway Hall, Trinity Church, Queens College, Bard College, Bargemusic, Merkin Hall, and many others, with additional performances throughout New England and in India. He was a pianist with the Harlem Opera, Connecticut Grand Opera Company, Brooklyn Art Song Society, the OMNI Ensemble, the jazz group NYAXE, and Brazilian singer-songwriter Suely Mesquita, as well as at auditions for Andrew Lloyd Webber and Paul Simon. For the past 2 years he accompanied the clarinet and double-reed studios at NYU. 
Michael earned his BM and BA at Oberlin, continuing his study at Juilliard and with composers John Eaton and Peter Susser and pianist Seymour Bernstein. In fall 2015 he enters NYU’s GSAS PhD program. He teaches at Bronx Community College (CUNY) and the Brooklyn Conservatory of Music. He runs the Brooklyn New Music Collective, now in its 13th year presenting concerts of work almost entirely by living composers; performers include David del Tredici, So Percussion, and Isabel Leonard, among many others, and dozens of works have been premiered on the series, including 4 commissions to date. 
Follow Brooklyn New Music Collective on Facebook.
www.facebook.com/brooklynnewmusic
michaelrosecomposer.wordpress.com