(1)
November 30, 2016
5pm
Waverly Building Room 365


Nils Vigelands 
Presentation on his works


Biography
Nils Vigeland was born in Buffalo, NY in 1950, the son of musicians. He made his professional debut as a pianist in 1969 with the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra, Lukas Foss, conductor. He later studied composition with Foss at Harvard College, graduating with a B.A. in 1972. He earned his Ph.D at The University at Buffalo where he studied composition with Morton Feldman and piano with Yvar Mikhashoff. With these mentors he was fortunate in developing long personal and professional associations.
His first orchestral piece was conducted by Foss with the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra in 1970 and Foss gave the first performance of One, Three, Five with the Milwaikee Symphony Orchestra in 1983.
Mikhashoff was instrumental in the comission and performance of many pieces, including the Piano Concerto (1984), premiered by Mikhashoff  and the Oslo Radio Orchestra, Christian Eggen, conductor, In Black and White for piano and chamber orchestra and False Love/True Love (1992), premiered by the English National Opera at the Almeida Theater, London.
With Eberhard Blum, flute and Jan Williams, percussion, Vigeland toured for eight years with Feldman as “Morton Feldman and Solists”, performing the extended length works for flute, percusion and piano that Feldman composed for them. They recorded these pieces on HAT ART.
For eight years (1980-89) Mr. Vigeland directed The Bowery Ensemble which gave an annual series of concerts in Cooper Union, NYC. The ensemble was strongly associated with the music of the New York School and gave the first performance of over thirty works by composers including Pauline Oliveros, Christian Wolf, Leo Smit, Chris Newman and John Thow.
His own work appears on CDs from Mode, EMF, Focus, Lovely Music, and Naxos. His choral music is published by Boosey and Hawkes. He taught at Manhattan School of Music for thirty years, retiring as Chair of the Composition Department in 2013.


(2) 
November 30, 2016
8pm 
Silver Building room 220


Timucin Sahin’s Flow State


(copy the event info from October 12) 


(3) 
December 2, 2016
8pm 
Silver Building 220


"They Shoot Lasers, Don't They? Electronic Music Theatre with Instruments of Interferometry"


Duo Creosota: Joe Mariglio and Adam Tinkle


Bio: The collaborative duo Creosota (Joe Mariglio and Adam Tinkle) began at Wesleyan University, where both members studied composition with Alvin Lucier, Anthony Braxton, and Ron Kuivila.  Continuing their collaboration on the West Coast, they released a tape of folk music made with custom software, co-founded the Universal Language Orchestra (a children's ensemble that composed its own scores and built its own instruments) and presented sound art works--usually some combination of sculptural, durational, and interactive--at venues ranging from the San Diego Museum of Art, the Museum of Contemporary Art, San Diego, UC Santa Barbara, Stanford University, and the Institute of Perception, as well as a permanent installation at the Media Arts Center, San Diego.


(4) 
December 6, 2016
8pm 
Waverly Building room 365


Timucin Sahin Trio


(copy the event info from Oct 17, they are the same) 


(5) 
December 13, 2016
8pm
Silver Building room 220


DCNSTRCTD


Carlos Cordeiro, clarinets


Program:
Karlheinz Stockhausen: Der Kleine Harlekin 
Hakan Ulus: Halaq II
Mauricio Kagel: Schattenklänge 
Salvatore Sciarrino: Let Me Die Before I Wake
Timothy McCormack: Raw Matter
Michael Maierhof: splitting


(6) 
March 29, 2017
8pm 
Silver Building room 220


MOZART | DECONSTRUCTION


Nefeli Mousoura, piano & Momenta Quartet


Program
Ioannis Angelakis: ASC-4.1.-III13, for String Quartet (2013)


Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart: Piano Concerto No.12 in A major KV.414, for Piano and String Quartet (1782)        


Johann Christian Bach: Ouverture for Gallupi’s: La Calamita de’ Cuori in D major (1763)        
Transcription for String Quartet by Ioannis Angelakis


Ioannis Angelakis: Institution Imaginaire [232], for String Quartet (2016)